---
slug: on-shiny
title: On Shiny
authors: coene
tags: [intro, shiny]
---

A post on how ambiorix compares to shiny, what are their differences or
similarities.

<!--truncate-->

## Introduction

There are two great paradigms to build we applications
(as far as I know): single page, and multipage.

They are fairly self explanatory, the former consists
of a single page, whilst the latter consists of multiple
pages.

However minor this difference may seem they have great impact
of how applications are built, and the logic used.

## Single Page

A single page application consists of the one page. 
The user enters the address of your application in their web browser,
e.g.: www.yourwebsite.com/ and hits <kbd>ENTER</kbd>; the browser
then makes a `GET` request your server which returns the page.
In a single page application, that one page, and only that one
will be loaded in the client's browser.

Every subsequent communication is likely done via the WebSocket
and the page is modified using JavaScript.
There may be other paths served which will not return HTML
content (only one page does that) but instead returned data used in
the application.

This is how [shiny](shiny.rstudio.com/) works.

## Multipage

Multiple page applications handle multiple paths.
User may browse the home page but also, for instance,
/about, and others.
This is probably how your personal or company website
functions.

In R, this is what you do with plumber: you handle
multiple endpoints.

## Logic

What's more relevant for the developer
is that this leads to two drastically different ways
to program applications, and solve problems.

Also, this has a tendency to create different frameworks,
where some focus one single pages and others on multipage.
In the R world, for single page application, there is Shiny,
to the best of my knowledge, this is the only frameworks to 
focus on this.

For multipage applications there is [RestRserve](https://restrserve.org/),
as well as [prairie](https://github.com/nteetor/prairie). 
However, the former focuses on build APIs (returning JSON) and the 
former appears to no longer be maintained.
